The Project Gutenberg eBook of The voice in the fog, by Henry
Leverage

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The voice in the fog

Author: Henry Leverage

Release Date: September 9, 2022 [eBook #68943]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VOICE IN THE FOG ***





The Voice in the Fog

by Henry Leverage


The _Seriphus_ was a ten thousand ton, straight bow ocean tanker, and
her history was the common one of Clyde-built ships--a voyage here
and a passage there, charters by strange oil companies, petrol for
Brazil, crude petroleum that went to Asia (for anointment purposes
among the heathen) and once there was a hurried call to some
unpronounceable Aegean port where the _Seriphus_ acted against the
Turks in their flare-up after the Great War.

The ordinary and usual--the up and down the trade routes--passed away
from the _Seriphus_ when Ezra Morgan, senior captain in the service
of William Henningay and Son, took over the tanker and drove her bow
into strange Eastern seas, loading with oil at California and
discharging cargo in a hundred unknown ports.

Of Ezra Morgan it was said that he had the daring of a Norseman and
the thrift of a Maine Yankee; he worked the _Seriphus_ for everything
the tanker could give William Henningay and Son; he ranted against
the outlandish people of the Orient and traded with them, on the
side, for all that he could gain for his own personal benefit.

Trading skippers and engineers with an inclination toward increasing
wage by rum-running and smuggling were common in the Eastern service.
Ezra Morgan’s rival in that direction aboard the _Seriphus_ ruled the
engine-room and took pride in declaring that every passage was a gold
mine for the skipper and himself.

The chief engineer of the _Seriphus_ saw no glory in steam, save
dollars; he mopped up oil to save money. His name was Paul Richter--a
brutal-featured man given to boasting about his daughter, ashore, and
what a lady he was making of her.

Paul Richter--whom Morgan hated and watched--was far too skilled in
anything pertaining to steam and its ramifications to be removed from
his position aboard the _Seriphus_. Henningay, Senior, believed in
opposing forces on his many tankers--it led to rivalry and
efficiency, instead of close-headedness and scheming against owners.

The _Seriphus_, after a round passage to Laichau Bay, which is in the
Gulf of Pechili, returned to San Francisco and was dry-docked near
Oakland, for general overhauling.

Richter, after making an exact and detailed report to Henningay, Jr.,
visited the opera, banked certain money he had made on the
round-passage, then went south to his daughter’s home. He found
trouble in the house; Hylda, his daughter, had a heart affair with a
marine electrician, Gathright by name, a young man with a meager wage
and unbounded ambition.

Through the Seven Seas, from the time of his Bavarian wife’s death,
from cancer of the breast, Richter, chief engineer of the _Seriphus_,
had sweated, slaved, saved and smuggled contraband from port in order
to say:

“This is my daughter! _Look at her!_”

Now, as Richter discovered, Hylda, twenty-seven years of age,
somewhat prim and musical, had given her promise to an electrician
whom the engineer believed was not fit to dust her shoes. Richter,
used to breaking and thrashing coolie oilers, ordered Gathright from
the house and locked up his daughter.

She cried for seven days. Gathright was seen in town. Richter’s rage
gave way to an engineer’s calculation.

“What for I study in University and college? Why do I hold
certificates? I fix Gathright!”

No oil was smoother than Richter’s well-laid plan; he sent Hylda away
and met Gathright.

“All right about my daughter,” he told the electrician. “You go one
voyage with me--we’ll see Henningay--I’ll fix you up so that you can
draw one hundred and fifty dollars in wage, with a rating as
electrician aboard the _Seriphus_.”

Gathright went with Richter to San Francisco. They recrossed the Bay,
without seeing Henningay, Jr., and, at dusk, climbed over the shoring
timbers and went aboard the _Seriphus_. Richter’s voice awoke echoes
in the deserted ship and dry-dock:

“Come, I show you my dynamo and motors. We go to the boiler-room
first, where the pumps are.”

The boiler-room, forward the engine-room of the tanker, was a place
of many snakelike pipes, valves, sea-plates and oily seepage from the
feedtanks. The _Seriphus_ was a converted oil-burner, having been
built before crude petroleum was used for steaming purposes. Three
double-end Scotch boilers made the steam that drove the tanker’s
triple-expansion engine.

Richter knew the way down to the boiler-room, blindfolded. He struck
matches, however, to guide Gathright, and remarked that the newer
ships of Henningay’s fleet had a storage-battery reserve for lighting
purposes when the dynamo ceased running.

Gathright, somewhat suspicious of Hylda’s father, took care to keep
two steps behind the chief-engineer. They reached and ducked under
the bulkhead beam where the door connected the engine-room with the
boiler-room. Richter found a flashlamp, snapped it on, swung its rays
around and about as if showing Gathright his new duties.

“There’s a motor-driven feed-pump,” he said. “Something’s the matter
with the motor’s commutator. It sparks under load--can you fix it
up?”

There was a professional challenge in the chief engineer’s voice;
Gathright forgot caution, got down on his knees, leaned toward the
motor and ran one finger over the commutator bars. They seemed
polished and free from carbon.

Richter reversed his grip on the flashlamp, swung once, twice, and
smashed the battery-end of the lamp down on Gathright’s head, just
over the top of the electrician’s right ear.

Gathright fell as if pole-axed and dropped with his hands twitching
on a metal plate.

Striking a match, Richter surveyed the electrical engineer.

“Good!” he grunted. “Now I put you where nobody’ll ever look--unless
I give the order.”

                *       *       *       *       *

A stump of candle, stuck by wax to a feed-pipe, allowed Richter
illumination sufficient to work by. Swearing, sweating, listening
once, he fitted a spanner to bolt-heads on a man-plate in the spare
boiler and removed the stubborn bolts until the plate clanged at his
feet.

Gathright was a slender man, easy to insert through the man-hole;
Richter had no trouble at all lifting the electrician and thrusting
him out of sight.

It seemed to the engineer, as he hesitated, that Hylda’s lover moaned
once and filled the boiler with a hollow sound.

Hesitation passed; and Richter swallowed his superstitious fears, put
back the man-hole plate, bolted it tighter than it ever was before,
almost stripping the threads, and stepped back, mopping his brow with
the sleeve of a shore-coat.

There was nothing very unusual in Richter’s further actions that
evening. The ship-keeper, who came aboard at daylight, long before
the dry-dock men began work, noticed a wet shore-hose, a thin plume
of steam aft the tanker’s squat funnel, and there was a trailing line
of smoke drifting aslant the _Seriphus’_ littered deck.

“Been testing that spare boiler,” explained Richter, when the
ship-keeper ducked through the bulkhead door. “I think it’s tight an’
unsealed, but th’ starboard one will need new tubes and general
cleaning. Get me some soap--I want to wash up.”

Richter dried his hands on a towel, tossed it toward the motor-driven
feedpump, then, when he left the boiler-room, his glance ranged from
the tightly-bolted man-hole cover up to a gauge on a steam-pipe. The
gauge read seventy-pounds--sufficient to parboil a heavier man than
Hylda’s lover.

“I think that was a good job,” concluded the first engineer of the
_Seriphus_.

The second engineer of the tanker, a Scot with a burr on his voice
like a file rasping the edge of a plate, stood watching Richter
balance himself as the stout chief came along a shoring-beam.

“I mark ye ha’ steam up,” commented the Scotchman, when Richter
climbed over the dry dock’s walk.

“Yes, in the spare boiler.”

Mr. S. V. Fergerson tapped a pipe on his heel.

“I made an inspection, myself, of that, not later than yesterday
forenoon. She was tight as a drum an’ free from scale. I left th’
man-hole--”

“Damn badly gasketed!” growled Richter.

Ferguson started to explain something; but the chief was in a hurry
to get away from sight of the _Seriphus_. There was a memory on the
tanker that required a drink or two in order to bring forgetfulness.
Richter gave the Scot an order that admitted of no answering back.

“Go aboard an’ blow off steam! That boiler’s all right!”

A roar, when Richter strode past the dry-dock’s sheds, caused him to
wheel around and listen. Ferguson, according to orders, was blowing
off the steam from the spare boiler.

Something, perhaps water or waste, clogged the pipe; and the escaping
vapor whistled; sputtered, and rose to a high piercing note that
sounded to the chief’s irritated nerves like the cry of a soul in
agony. The note died, resumed its piercing screeching. Richter’s arm
and hand shook when he mopped his brow and drew a wet sleeve down
with an angry motion.

In fancy the noise that came from the _Seriphus’_ starboard side,
echoed and deflated by the hollow dock, was Gathright calling for
Hylda. Richter covered his ears and staggered away.

                *       *       *       *       *

Ezra Morgan hastened such repairs as were required for making the
_Seriphus_ ready for sea; the tanker left the dry-dock, steamed out
the Golden Gate, and took aboard oil at a Southern California port.

All tanks, a well-lashed deck load of eased lubricant--consigned to a
railroad in Manchuri--petroleum for the furnaces, brought the
_Seriphus_ down to the Plimsoll Mark; she drove from shore and
crossed the Pacific where, at three God-forsaken Eastern roadsteads,
she unloaded and made agents for the oil-purchasers happy with
shipments delivered on time.

The romance of caravan routes, and pale kerosene lamps burning in
Tartar tents, escaped both Ezra Morgan and Richter; they went about
their business of changing American and English minted gold for
certain contrabands much wanted in the States. The chief engineer
favored gum-opium as a road to riches; Ezra dealt in liquors and
silks, uncut gems and rare laces.

Fortunately for the chief engineer’s peace of mind, the spare,
double-end Scotch boiler was not used on the Russian voyage.
Gathright was forgotten and Hylda, safe in an eastern music school,
was not likely to take up with another objectionable lover. Richter,
relieved of a weight, went about the engine-room and boiler-room
humming a score of tunes, all set to purring dynamos, clanking pumps,
and musical crossheads.

At mid-Paciflc, on a second voyage--this time to an oilless country,
if ever there were one, Mindanao--a frightened water-tender came
through the bulkhead door propelled by scalding steam, and there was
much to do aboard the _Seriphus_. The port boiler had blown out a
tube; the spare, midship boiler was filled with fresh water and the
oil-jets started.

Richter, stripped to the waist, it being one hundred and seventeen
degrees hot on deck, drove his force to superhuman effort. Ezra
Morgan, seven hours after the accident, had the steam and speed he
ordered, in no uncertain tones, through the bridge speaking-tube.

Fergerson, a quiet man always, had occasion, the next day, to enter
the chief’s cabin, where Richter sat writing a letter to Hylda, which
he expected to post via a homeward bound ship. Richter glared at the
second engineer.

“That spare boiler--” began Fergerson.

“What of it?”

“Well, mon, it’s been foamin’ an’ a gauge-glass broke, an’ there’s
something wrong wi’ it.”

“We can’t repair th’ port boiler until we reach Mindanao.”

Fergerson turned to go.

“Ye have m’ report,” he said acidly. “That boiler’s bewitched, or
somethin’.”

“Go aft!” snarled Richter, who resumed writing his letter.

He hesitated once, chewed on the end of the pen, tried to frame the
words he wanted to say to Hylda. Then he went on:

    “--expect to return to San Francisco within thirty-five days.
    Keep up your music--forget Gathright--I’ll get you a good man,
    with straight shoulders and a big fortune, when I come back and
    have time to look around.”

Richter succeeded in posting the letter, along with the Captain’s
mail, when the _Seriphus_ spoke a Government collier that afternoon
and sheered close enough to toss a package aboard. Ezra Morgan leaned
over the bridge-rail and eyed the smudge of smoke and plume of steam
that came from the tanker’s squat funnel. He called for Richter, who
climbed the bridge-ladder to the captain’s side.

“We’re only logging nine, point five knots,” said Ezra Morgan. “Your
steam is low--it’s getting lower. What’s th’ matter? Saving oil?”

“That spare boiler is foaming,” the chief explained.

“Damn you and your spare boiler! What business had you leaving San
Francisco with a defective boiler? Your report to Mr. Henningay
stated that everything was all right in engine-room and boiler-room.”

“Foam comes from soap or--something else in the water.”

“Something else--”

Richter got away from Ezra Morgan on a pretense of going below to the
boiler-room. Instead of going below, however, he went aft and leaned
over the taffrail. Somehow or other, he feared that spare boiler and
the consequence of conscience.

Limping, with three-quarters of the necessary steam pressure, the
_Seriphus_ reached Mindanao and was forced to return to California
without repairs to the port boiler. While repairs, new tubes and
tube-sheet were put in place by boilersmiths, Richter saw his
daughter, who had come west from music school.

The change in her was pronounced; she spoke not at all of Gathright,
whose disappearance she could not understand; and Richter, keen where
his daughter was concerned, realized that her thinness and
preoccupation was on account of the missing electrician.

“I get you a fine fellow,” he promised Hylda.

He brought several eligible marine engineers to the house. Hylda
snubbed them and cried in secret.

An urgent telegram called Richter back to the _Seriphus_. He made two
long voyages, one down Chili-way, the other half around the world,
before the tanker’s bow was turned toward California. Much time had
elapsed from the night he had thrust Gathright into the spare boiler
and turned on the oil-jets beneath its many tubes. Once, in
Valparaiso, an under-engineer pointed out red rust leaking from the
gauge-glass of the spare boiler.

“Looks like blood,” commented this engineer.

Richter scoffed, but that afternoon he drank himself stupid on
kummel, obtained from an engineer’s club ashore. Another time, just
after the tanker left the port of Aden on her homebound passage, a
stowaway crawled out from beneath the cold boiler and gave Richter
the fright of his life.

“Why, mon,” said Fergerson, who was present in the boiler-room,
“that’s only a poor wisp o’ an Arab.”

“I thought it was a ghost,” blabbered Richter.

Barometer pressure rose when the _Seriphus_ neared mid-Pacific. Ezra
Morgan predicted a typhoon before the tanker was on the longitude of
Guam. Long rollers came slicing across the _Seriphus’_ bow, drenched
the forecastle, filled the ventilators and flooded the boiler-room.

Richter went below, braced himself in the rolling engine-room,
listened to his engines clanking their sturdy song, then waddled over
the gratings and ducked below the beam that marked the bulkhead door.
An oiler in high rubber boots lunged toward the chief engineer.

“There’s something inside th’ spare boiler!” shouted the man. “Th’
boiler-room crew won’t work, sir.”

Richter waded toward a frightened group all of whom were staring at
the spare boiler. A hollow rattling sounded when the tanker heaved
and pitched--as if some one were knocking bony knuckles againt the
stubborn iron plates.

“A loose bolt,” whispered Richter. “Keep th’ steam to th’ mark, or
I’ll wipe a Stillson across th’ backs of all of you,” he added in a
voice that they could hear and understand.

Superstition, due to the menacing storm and high barometer, the
uncanny noises in the racked boiler-room, Richter’s bullying manner,
put fear in the hearts of the deck crew. Oil-pipes clogged, pumps
refused to work, valves stuck and could scarcely be moved.

“I’ve noo doot,” Fergerson told his Chief, “there’s a ghost taken up
its abode wi’ us.”

Richter drank quart after quart of trade-gin.

                *       *       *       *       *

The barometer became unsteady, the sky hazy, the air melting hot, and
a low, rugged cloud bank appeared over the _Seriphus’_ port bow.

Down fell the barometer, a half-inch, almost, and the avalanche of
rain and wind that struck the freighter was as if Thor was hammering
her iron plates.

Ezra Morgan, unable to escape from the typhoon’s center, prepared to
ride out the storm by bringing the _Seriphus_ up until she had the
sea on the bow, and he had held her there by going half speed ahead.
A night of terror ruled the tanker; the decks were awash, stays
snapped, spume rose and dashed over the squat funnel aft the bridge.

Morning, red-hued, with greenish patches, revealed a harrowed ocean,
waves of tidal height, and astern lay a battered hulk--a freighter,
dismasted, smashed, going down slowly by the bow.

“A Japanese tramp,” said Ezra Morgan. “Some _Marau_ or other, out of
the Carolines bound for Yokohama.”

Richter, stupid from trade-gin was on the bridge with the Yankee
skipper.

“We can’t help her,” the engineer said heavily. “I think we got all
we can do to save ourselves.”

Ezra Morgan entertained another opinion. The storm had somewhat
subsided, and the wind was lighter, but the waves were higher than
ever he had known them. They broke over the doomed freighter like
surf on a reef.

“Yon’s a distress signal flying,” said Ezra Morgan. “There’s a few
seamen aft that look like drowned rats. We’ll go before th’ sea--I’ll
put th’ sea abaft th’ beam, an we’ll outboard oil enough to lower a
small boat an’ take those men off that freighter.”

The maneuver was executed, the screw turned slowly, oil was poured
through the waste-pipes and spread magically down the wind until the
freighter’s deck, from aft the forehouse, could be seen above the
waves.

Over the patch of comparative calm oars dipped, and a mate, in charge
of the small boat lowered from the _Seriphus_, succeeded in getting
off the survivors who were clinging to the freighter’s taffrail.

The small boat lived in a sea that had foundered big ships. It
returned to the tanker’s bow; and the four men, bruised, broken, all
half-dead from immersion, were hoisted to the forepeak and taken aft.
Two were Japanese sailors and two were Americans--a wireless operator
and an engineer. The engineer had a broken leg which required
setting, and the wireless operator was in a bad fix; wreckage had
stove in his features, and twisted his limbs.

Ezra Morgan was a rough and ready surgeon-doctor; he turned the
_Seriphus_ over to the first mate and made a sick room out of
Richter’s cabin. The chief protested.

“Get below to your damn steam!” roared Ezra Morgan. “You hated to see
me bring aboard these poor seamen; you said I wasted fuel oil; your
breath smells like a gin-mill. Below with you, sir!”

The engine-room and boiler-room of the tanker, she being in water
ballast, was not unlike an inferno; the first mate, acting on Ezra
Morgan’s instructions, drove the _Seriphus_ at three-quarter speed
into a series of head-on waves; the ship rolled and yawed, tossed,
settled down astern, then her screw raced in mingled foam and brine.

Richter’s stomach belched gas; he became sea-sick, climbed into a
foul-smelling “ditty-box” of a cabin, aft the engine-room, and
attempted to sleep off the effect of the gin. Picture-post-cards;
mostly of actresses, a glaring electric over the bunk, oil and water
swishing the metal deck below, and the irritating clank of
irregular-running engines drove sleep away from him.

Fergerson, the silent second engineer, came into the “ditty-box” at
eight bells, or four o’clock. Fergerson’s thumb jerked forward.

“I’ll have t’ use that spare boiler,” said he.

“What’s th’ matter now?”

“Feed-pipes clogged in starb’ard one, sir.”

“Use it,” said Richter.

Steam was gotten up on the spare, double-end Scotch boiler; the
starboard boiler was allowed to cool; Fergerson, despite the tanker’s
rolling motion, succeeded in satisfying Ezra Morgan by keeping up the
three-quarter speed set by the skipper.

Richter sobered when the last of the trade-gin was gone; the
_Seriphus_ was between Guam and ’Frisco; the heavy seas encountered
were the afterkick of the simoon.

Rolling drunkenly, from habit, the chief went on the bridge and asked
about getting back his comfortable cabin aft. Ezra Morgan gave him no
satisfaction.

“Better stay near your boilers,” advised the captain. “Everything’s
gone to hell, sir, since you changed from kummel to gin!”

“Are not th’ injured seamen well yet?”

“Th’ wireless chap’s doing all right--but th’ engineer of that
Japanese freighter is hurt internally. You can’t have that cabin,
this side of San Francisco.”

“What were two Americans doing in that cheap service?”

Ezra Morgan glanced sharply at Richter.

“Everybody isn’t money mad--like you. There’s many a good engineer,
and mate, too, in th’ Japanese Merchant Marine. Nippon can teach us a
thing or two--particularly about keeping Scotch boilers up to th’
steaming point.”

This cut direct sent Richter off the bridge; he encountered a
bandaged and goggled survivor of the freighter’s wreck at the head of
the engine-room ladder. The wireless operator, leaning on a crutch
whittled by a bo’sain, avoided Richter, who pushed him roughly aside
and descended the ladder, backward.

White steam, lurid oaths, Scotch anathema from the direction of the
boiler-room, indicated more trouble. Fergerson came from forward and
bumped into Richter, so thick was the escaping vapor.

“Out o’ my way, mon,” the second engineer started to say, then
clamped his teeth on his tongue.

“What’s happened, now!” queried Richter.

“It’s that wicked spare boiler--she’s aleak an’ foamin,’ an’ there’s
water in th’ fire-boxes.”

Richter inclined his bullet shaped head; he heard steam hissing and
oilers cursing the day they had signed on the _Seriphus_. A blast
when a gasket gave way, hurtled scorched men between Richter and
Fergerson; a whine sounded from the direction of the boiler-room; the
whine rose to an unearthly roar: Richter saw a blanket of white vapor
floating about the engine’s cylinders. This vapor, to his muddled
fancy, seemed to contain the figure of a man wrapped in a winding
shroud.

He clapped both hands over his eyes, hearing above the noise of
escaping steam a call so distinct it chilled his blood.

“_Hylda!_”

                *       *       *       *       *

Now there was that in the ghostly voice that brought Richter’s
gin-swollen brain to the realization of the thing he had done in
disposing of Gathright by bolting him in the spare boiler.

No good luck had followed that action; Hylda was still disconsolate;
trade and smuggling was at a low ebb; there was talk, aboard and
ashore, of reducing engineers’ and skippers’ wage to the bone.

Richter had a Teutonic stubbornness; Ezra Morgan had certainly turned
against his chief engineer; the thing to do was to lay the ghostly
voice, make what repairs were necessary in the boiler-room, and give
the tanker’s engines the steam they needed in order to make a quick
return passage to San Francisco and please the Henningays.

An insane rage mastered Richter--the same red vision he had
experienced when he threw Gathright out of his daughter’s house. He
lowered his bullet head, brushed the curling vapors from his eyes,
and plunged through the bulkhead door, bringing up in scalding steam
before the after end of the midship, or spare boiler.

Grotesquely loomed all three boilers. They resembled humped camels
kneeling in a narrow shed by some misty river. Steam in quantity came
hissing from the central camel; out of the furnace-doors, from a
feed-pipe’s packing, around a flange where the gauge-glass was
riveted.

The _Seriphus_ climbed a long Pacific roller, steadied, then rocked
in the trough between seas; iron plates, gratings, flue-cleaners,
scrapers, clattered around Richter who felt the flesh on neck and
wrist rising into water blisters.

No one had thought to close the globe-valve in the oil supply line,
or to extinguish the fires beneath the spare and leaking boiler.
Richter groped through a steam cloud, searching for the handwheel on
the pipe line. All the metal he touched was simmering hot.

A breath of sea air came down a ventilator; Richter gulped this air
and tried to locate the globe-valve with the iron wheel. Vision
cleared, he saw the red and open mouth of the central camel--the
flannel-like flames and he heard, through toothed bars a voice
calling, “Hylda!”

Fergerson and a water tender dragged their chief from the boiler room
by the heels; blistered, with the skin peeled from his features,
Richter’s eyes resembled hot coals in their madness. Blabbering
nonsense, the engineer gave one understandable order:

“Put out th’ fire, draw th’ water, search inside th’ spare
boiler--there’s something there, damit!”

Ezra Morgan came below, while the spare boiler was cooling, and
entered Richter’s temporary cabin--the “ditty-box” with the play
actresses’ pictures glued everywhere. Fergerson had applied rude
doctoring--gauze bandages soaked in petroleum--on face and arms.

“What’s th’ matter, man?” asked Ezra Morgan. “Have you gone mad?”

“I heard some one calling my daughter, Hylda.”

“Where do you keep your gin?”

“It’s gone! Th’ voice was there inside th’ spare boiler. Did
Fergerson look; did he find a skeleton, or--”

Ezra Morgan pinched Richter’s left arm, jabbed home a hypodermic
containing morphine, and left the chief engineer to sleep out his
delusions. Fergerson came to the “ditty-box” some watches later.
Richter sat up.

“What was in th’ spare boiler?” asked the chief.

“Scale, soda, a soapy substance.”

“Nothing else?”

“Why, mon, that’s enough to make her foam.”

Richter dropped back on the bunk and closed his lashless eyes.

“Suppose a man, a stowaway, had crawled through th’ aft man-hole, an’
died inside th’ boiler? Would that make it foam--make th’ soapy
substance?”

“When could any stowaway do that?”

Richter framed his answer craftily: “Say it was done when th’
_Seriphus_ was at Oakland that time th’ boilers were repaired in
dry-dock.”

Fergerson drew on his memory. “Th’ time, mon, ye went aboard an’
tested th’ spare boiler? Th’ occasion when ye took th’ trouble to rig
up a shore-hose in order to fill th’ boiler wi’ water?”

“Yes.”

“Did ye ha’ a man-hole plate off th’ boiler?”

“I removed th’ after-end plate, then went for th’ hose. We had no
steam up, you remember, and our feed-pumps are motor-driven.”

“Ye think a mon might ha’ crawled through to th’ boiler during your
absence?”

“Yes!”

“Ye may b’ right--but if one did he could ha’ escaped by th’ fore
man-hole plate. I had that off, an’ wondered who put it back again so
carelessly. Ye know th’ boiler is a double-ender--wi’ twa man-holes.”

Richter was too numbed to show surprise. Fergerson left the
“ditty-box” and pulled shut the door. The tanker, under reduced
steam, made slow headway toward San Francisco.

One morning, a day out from soundings, the chief engineer awoke, felt
around in the gloom, and attempted to switch on the electric light.

He got up and threw his legs over the edge of the bunk. A man sat
leaning against the after plate. Richter blinked; the man, from the
goggles on him and the crutch that lay across his knees, was the
wireless operator who had been rescued from a sea grave.

“No need for light,” said the visitor in a familiar voice. “You can
guess who I am, Richter.”

“A ghost!” said the chief. “Gathright’s ghost! Come to haunt me!”

“Not exactly to haunt you. I assure you I am living flesh--somewhat
twisted, but living. I got out of that midship boiler, while you were
bolting me in so securely. I waited until you went on deck for a
hose, and replaced the after man-hole cover. I was stunned and lay
hidden aboard for two days. Then I looked for Hylda. She was gone. I
shipped as electrician for a port in Japan. I knocked around a
bit--at radio work for the Japanese. It was chance that the
_Seriphus_ should have picked me up from the _Nippon Maru.”_

“That voice calling for Hylda,” cried Richter.

“Was a little reminder that I sent through the boiler-room
ventilator; I knew you were down there, Richter.”

The marine engineer switched on the electric light.

“What do you want?” he whined to Gathright.

“Hylda--your daughter!”

Paul Richter covered his eyes.

“If she will atone for the harm I have done you, Gathright, she is
yours with her father’s blessing.”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the June 1923 issue of
Weird Tales magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VOICE IN THE FOG ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
